# 4 - Beyond Classical Search
_In which we relax the simplifying assumptions of the previous chapter, thereby getting closer to the real world._
This chapter has examined search algorithms for problems beyond the "classical" case of finding the shortest path to a goal in an observable, deterministiv, discrete environment.
* _Local search_ methods such as __hill climbinb__ operate on complete-state formulations, keeping only a small number of nodes in memory. Several stochastic algorithms have been developed, including __simulated annealing__, which returns optimal solutions when given an appropiate cooling schedule.
* Many local search methods apply also to problems in continious spaces. __Linear programming__ and __convex optimaztion__ problems obey cirtain restrictions on the shape of the state space and the nature of the objective function, and admit polynomial-time algorithms thatr are often extremely efficient in practise.
* A __genetic algorithm__ is a stochastic hill-climbing search in which a large population of states is maintained. New states are generated by __mutation__ and by __crossover__, which combines pairs of states from the population.
* In __nondeterministic__ environments, agents can apply `AND-OR` search to generate __contingent__ plans to reach the goal regardless of which outcomes occur during execution.
* When the environment is partially observable, the __belief state__ represents the set of possible states that the agent might be in.
* Standard search algorithms can be applied directly to belief-state space to solve __sensorless problems__, and belief-state `AND-OR` search can solve general partially observable problems. Incremental algorithms that construct solutions state-by-state within a belief state are more often efficient.
* __Exploration problems__ arise when the agent has no idea about the states and actions of its environment. For safely explorable environments, __online search__ agents can build a map and find a goal if one exists. Updating heuristic estimates from experience provides an effective method to escape from local minima.