# 6 - Constraint Satisfaction Problem
_In which we see how treating states as more than just black boxed leads to the invention of a range of powerful new search methods and a deeper understanding of problem structure and complexity._
* __Constraint satisfaction problems__ (CSPs) represent a state with a set of variable/value paris and represent the conditions for a solution by a set of constraints on the variables. Many important real-world problems can be described as CSPs.
* A number of inference techniques use the constraints to infer which variable/value pairs are consistent and which are not. These include node, arc, path, and $k$-consistency.
* __Backtracking search__, a form of depth-first search, is commonly used for solving CSPs. Inference can be interwoven with search.
* The __minimum-remaining-values__ and __degree__ heuristics are domain-independent methods for deciding which variable to choose next in a backtracking search. The __least-constraining-value__ heuristic helps in deciding which value to try first for a given variable. Backtracking occurs when lo legal assignment can be found for a variable. __Conflict-directed backjumping__ backtracks directly to the source of the problem.
* Local search using the __min-conflicts__ heuristic has also been applied to constraint satisfaction problems with great success.
* The complexityof solving a CSP is strongly related to the structure of its constraint graph. Tree-structured problems can be solved in linear time. __Cutset conditioning__ can reduce a general CSP to a tree-structured one and is quite efficient if a small cutset can be found. __Tree decomposition__ techniques transform the CSP into a tree of subproblems and are efficient if the __tree width__ of the constraint graph is small.