# 7 - Logical Agents
_In which we design agents that can form representations of a complex world, use a process of inference to derive new representations about the world, and use these new representations to deduce what to do._
We have introduced knowledge-based agents and have shown how to define a logic with which suck agents can reason about the world. The main points are as follows:
* Intelligent agents need knowledge about the world in order to reach good decisions.
* Knowledge is contained in agents in the form of __sentences__ in a __knowledge representation language__ that are stored in a __knowledge base.__
* A knowledge-based agent is composed of a knowledge base and an inference mechanism. It operates by storing sentences about the world in its knowledge base, using the inference mechanism to infer new sentences, and using these sentences to deduce what action to take.
* A representation language is defined by its __syntax__, which specifies the structure of sentences, and its __semantics,__ which defines the __truth__ of each sentence in each __possible world__ or __model.__
* The relationship of __entailment__ between sentences is crucial to our understanding of reasoning. A sentence $\alpha$ entails another sentence $\beta$ if $\beta$ is true in all worlds where $\alpha$ is true.Equivalent definitions include the __validity__ of the sentence $\alpha\implies\beta$ and the __unsatisfiability__ of the sentence $\alpha\wedge\neg\beta$.
* Inference is the process of deriving new sentences from old ones. __Sound__ inference algorithms derive _only_ sentences that are entailed; __complete__ algorithms derive _all_ sentences that are entailed.
* __Propositional logic__ is a simple language consisting of __proposition symbols__ and __logical connectives.__ It can handle __propositions__ that are known true, known false, or completely unknown.
* The set of possible models, given a fixed propositional vocabulary, is finite, so entailment can be checked by enumerating models. Efficient __model-checking__ inference algorithms for propositional logic include backtracking and local search methods and can often solve large problems quickly.
* __Inference rules__ are patterns of sound inference that can be used to find proofs. The __resolution__ rule yields a complete inference algorithm for knowledge bases that are expressed in __conjuctive normal form.__ __Forward chaining__ and __backward chaining__ are very natural reasoning algorithms for knowledge bases in __Horn form.__
* __Local search__ methods such as `WALKSAT` can be used to find solutions. Such algorithms are sound but not complete.
* Logical __state estimation__ involves maintaining a logical sentence that describes the set of possible states consistent with the observation history. Each update step requires inference using the transition model of the environment, which is built from __successor-state axioms__ that specify how each __fluent__ changes.
* Decisions within a logical agent can be made by SAT solving: finding possible models specifiying future action sequences that reach the goal. This approach works only for fully observable or sensorless environments.
* Propositional logic does not scale to environments of unbounded size because it lacks the expressive power to deal concisely with time, space, and universal patterns of relationships among objects.