# 10 - Classical Planning
_In which we see how an agent an take advantage of the structure of a problem to construct complex plans of action._
In this chapter, we defined the problem of planning in deterministic, fully observable, static environments. We described the PDDL representation for planning problems and several algorithmic approaches for solving them. The points to remember:
* Planning systems are problem-solving algorithms that operate on explicit propositional og relational representations of states and actions. These representations make possible the derivation of effective heuristic and the development of powerful and flexible algorithms for solving problems.
* PDDL, the Planning Domain Definition Language, describes the initial and goal states as conjunctions of literals, and actions in terms of the preconditions and effects.
* State-space search can operate in the forward direction (__progression__) or the backward direction (__regression__). Effective heuristics can be derived by subgoal independence assumptions and by various relaxations of the planning problem.
* A __planning-graph__ can be constructed incrementally, starting from the initial state. Each layer contains a superset of all the literals or actions that could occur at that time step and ecnodes mutual exclustion (mutex) relations among literals or actions that cannot occur. Planning graphs yield useful heuristics for state-space and partial-order planners and can be used directly in the `GRAPHPLAN` algorithm.
* Other approaches include first-order deduction over situation calculus axioms: encoding a planning problem as a Boolean satisfability problem or as a constraint satisfaction problem: and explicitly searching through the space of partially ordered plans.
* Each of the major approaches to plannng has its adherents, and there is as yet no consensus on which is best. Competition and cross-fertilization among the approaches have resulted in significant gains in efficiency for planning systems.
